# CheckMaite
## Intro

After 2021, with the global deployment of LLM solution ChatGPT, a constatation has been made : about 80% of newly published abstracts were likely to be generated by AI. 

The goal of this report is not to judge whether this is good or bad news for research, knowing that although quality can be deteriored, and abstracts normalized, chatgpt opened the domain to new countries where english is not well spoken.

The goal of this project is to train a model that could be used to detect whether an abstract is written by a real person, or by an AI tool.

## Data preprocessing

The data used in this project is AI-GA Dataset (https://paperswithcode.com/dataset/ai-ga-ai-generated-abstracts-dataset), for which no benchmark has been created yet.

It is structured under csv format : title, text, label and contains 28663 rows.

Because the model we will use in the next parts needs to be under the shape of vectors, we need to preprocess each row. We use an open-source **text embedding** for that (https://huggingface.co/thenlper/gte-base). Because this embedding model only supports 512 tokens-length text, the question of how we will create the vectors is a first point of discussion. We decide in first time to keep only the first 512 tokens to build the embeddings. In a second time, we will create embeddings for all tokens, and train the model on that full set. When testing that method, we will use the gliding window technique and consider that the text is generated by AI if at least 1 of its constitute part is detected generated by AI.

The considered potential input for the model are : title embedding, abstract text embedding. In addition, if time allows us to do so, we will consider adding the lab associated to the publication, the research journal or conference, and the date of publish. It will require additional processing.
